Is the destiny of mankind controlled by some transcendental entity or law?
Is it like the hand of God hovering above?
At least it is true...
...that man has no control, even over his own will.
Can't we go any faster?
No.
Any faster and it'll be too hard on Griffith.
They're catching up.
Feel no shame about shape.
Weather changes their phrase.
Even mother will show you another way.
So put your glasses on.
Nothing will be wrong.
There's no blame. There's no fame.
It's up to you.
The first words should be found.
Whatever holds you back.
I... ...can... I can get it off.
Tell me what... Tell me what... Tell me what you want.
I don't know why... Don't know why...
Don't know why you're afraid.
Tell me what... Tell me what... Tell me what you'd say.
I don't know why... Don't know why... Too late...
It's too late.
Eve of the Feast
First unit, continue pursuit!
Second unit, follow my lead!
To the valley!
At this rate, they'll catch up with us any second!
We have no choice!
Should we attack?
No, we'll make it!
We thought we'd welcome you with bows and arrows.
I'm counting on you to look after Griffith.
We'll take good care of him, big sister.
We're going to annihilate our pursuers here, once and for all!
Bastards!
Charge!
What happened?
Stop right there!
Bastard!
Don't move.
Now slowly put your weapons down and surrender!
I'm sure you thought you could revive your group with this man's return, but...
Stop it!
Behold!
This man will never fight again!
He will never ride a horse, nor hold a sword again...
He can't even stand on his own two feet!
You've made a grave mistake.
There is not a single shred of hope left for any of you.
Hey, it's not true, is it?
What that bastard said was a load of bullshit, right?
Screw you, guys! I'll ask him myself.
You can't do that.
What do you mean?
Griffith can't give you an answer.
You've got to be kidding.
So his throat got a little dry living in prison?
And that's why...
What the hell!
This is supposed to be our new beginning!
We were going to make a fresh start after we rescued Griffith, right?
For a year we've lived like squirming bugs, losing half our men...
But after believing for so long that all we had to do was get Griffith back...
This is what we get?
You know, I had a feeling it would turn out like this, seriously...
But...
But even so...
What are we going to do?
What on earth are we going to do now?
It's not like we've been totally wiped out.
And we have you, Casca...
There's no Band of the Hawk without Griffith.
You all should know that.
Yeah, but if that's the...
Casca's pushed herself harder than anyone else.
So stop making unreasonable demands.
Yeah, but...
What about us...
Please give me...
...some time.
We still have time until the others join us.
Let me think this over until then.
Hey, wait up!
What is there to think over?
What are you planning?
You're not thinking of continuing...
What were you... ...about to say back there?
That if it's a battle of your own choosing...
...then you'd better settle it yourself.
That shows... how strong you are.
Because for us, even if we started something, we can't always finish it.
Can you really look Griffith in the eye now and say that?
We're all weak.
So we cling to others and to dreams...
We cling to kind words of comfort... and even to harsh words of rebuke.
All I've wanted was someone to cling to... To be by my side.
I'll go check on Griffith.
Griffith, let's change your bandages.
Whether it's a good dream or a bad dream...
No one feels good when woken up in the middle of one...
So are you going back to traveling and perfecting your combat skills?
I guess. And you?
Well...
Perhaps I'll bring along the guys that are left and form a band of thieves.
That way, I'm sure we can at least take care of Griffith...
I'll come too.
You already left us once, remember?
You have no obligation to stick with us any longer.
But...
...you do?
Sure, I'm still one of the Band of the Hawk.
But you're different.
You've already begun fighting your own battles.
Leave behind those who can no longer stand up.
That's the law of the battlefield, isn't it?
But that aside...
You better be sure to take Casca with you this time.
She's too much of a straight arrow to be leading a pack of thieves.
A thief with a conscience? No thanks... Not for me!
I mean it.
Take her with you, even if you have to drag her.
Commander!
Commander Guts!
Hey, are you planning to leave us again without saying a word?
If you go, please let us go with you!
We've all talked it over and agree...
Not one of us wishes otherwise.
You guys...
As long as you're there...
We'll make it through, somehow.
Commander!
Please take us with you... Commander...
Please, Commander...
Perhaps... ...this has been my home all along.
I didn't realize it until this very moment...
Everything I wanted back then is right here in front of me now.
Why?
Why do I never realize what I have until it is lost?
Griffith's hands...
I never realized how small they were...
He tried to grasp everything with these two hands...
Just by placing this hand on my shoulder...
...he always made my fears subside...
He saved me time after time...
Now I must do the same for him.
Oh...
Um...
Um, I...
Sorry... I'll go get more bandages...
Griffith, st...
Hey...
How's Griffith?
He just fell asleep...
Something wrong?
No, nothing's wrong...
What the hell's going on?
No, really, it's nothing!
So you're crying over nothing?
Did something happen to Griffith?
No, stop!
It's not that!
Hey...
I'm sorry...
I can't go... What?
I-I can't go with you...
Griffith... ...he's so small...
...and he's trembling so much...
When he used to be so proud and dignified...
I can't leave him behind...
I can't leave him like that...
I'm sorry...
I'll stay...
...as well.
You're through clinging to other people's dreams...
You have your own battles to fight, remember?
You have to go...
If you're Griffith's true friend...
...you have to leave.
Even without me, you have to go.
Why are you trembling with fear in a place like this?
Let's go...
I still want to play some more!
The sun hasn't set yet.
Griffith!
But how?
Did he hear us?
I'll go after him!
Go tell the others!
I've rested too long...
It's time to go...
It's not over yet...
As long as that cobblestone path keeps leading me on...
Griffith...
Supper's ready.
Oh, were you asleep?
Sorry...
...but we need to get some air in here...
Where am I?
What?
Is there something on my face?
You were dreaming about the old days again, weren't you?
A dream...
I see. That's all it was.
It's been a while since any of the guys came by to see us.
I wonder what they're all up to?
I wonder if that guy's still waving his big sword around somewhere?
The past feels like nothing more than a dream now.
Hey! Guts!
Leave Pippin alone!
Go wash your hands!
Yes, Mother!
Many things happened...
But they're all just distant memories now.
I think I'm much more suited to this lifestyle...
My life with you and our boy, just the three of us...
This kind of peaceful life is not so bad.
It's called a behelit, the Egg of the King.
The owner of this necklace is destined to hold...
...the world in his hands, in exchange for his flesh and blood.
In exchange for his flesh and blood?
Griffith... ...was it really me who drove you to this?
Am I responsible for what has become of you?
What should I do?
What do you want me to do?
What can I do for you now?
What's that?
What the...
A solar eclipse...
Griffith!
Stay away!
Guts!
What the hell is that?
Soldiers?
Can it be the Midland army?
I don't know...
I don't know what it is... But it's ominous...
Griffith!
Don't come near me!
If you touch me now...
If you grasp my shoulder now...
I'll never again...
I'll never again... you.
Griffith.
Looking back, the morning comes.
Don't find your face in your glass.
Take the moonlight by the tail.
It's a rainy sight. You're shading.
What is that?
It's just the same.
What is trying your crown?
I'm spending my glass, walking back.
So wear my glass. You're fading.
I'm waiting so long.
I'm waiting...
Next Episode
Their final destination is darkness...
And it is despair that awaits them.
They are engulfed.
By betrayal... Confusion... Tears... Woe...
Solitude... And all that shall be left in the end...
...is the purest of dreams.
The Great Eclipse